POR node operators documentation (#35)
Bisonai/orakl-docs: en/node-operators-guide/por.md

# Orakl Network Proof of Reserve

## Description

The **Orakl Network Proof of Reserve** is a critical component within the Orakl Network ecosystem, designed to establish and verify the reserve holdings of financial entities. This service ensures transparency and trust in the financial operations by providing a secure and auditable process for validating reserve data. The Orakl Network Proof of Reserve is a cornerstone within the ecosystem, dedicated to establishing trust in financial operations. This service seamlessly integrates off-chain and on-chain processes, providing a robust framework to verify and authenticate reserve holdings.

> A Proof of Reserve is defined by a pair of an adapter and an aggregator, and can be accessed on-chain through a `POR Proxy` smart contract. The `POR Proxy` is an auxiliary contract that redirects read requests to `POR` contract. The `POR` contract holds all submission values that is served to consumers through `POR Proxy` contract.

Reviewer: Let's say that the on-chain implementation is same as for Data Feed. And the we will reference to real names of smart contracts `Aggregator` and `AggregatorProxy`. 🙌

Every proof of reserve has configuration that describes the least frequent update interval called `heartbeat`, and minimum deviation threshold (`deviationTreshold`). 

The **Orakl Network Proof of Reserve** operates as a streamlined, single-process system, easily triggered by a Cron job. The initial phase involves retrieving the most recent `roundId` and `POR value` from the `POR contract`. Subsequently, the process assesses eligibility for submission through a combination of the `Heartbeat Check` and `Deviation Check`. If either condition is met, the final step involves fetching data from the `API resource` and reporting the next round to the `POR contract`. This cohesive workflow ensures efficient and timely execution of the `Proof of Reserve` process.

> The code is located under [`core` directory](https://github.com/Bisonai/orakl/tree/master/core).

Reviewer: Let's link directly to PoR directory.

## Setup

The **Orakl Network Proof of Reserve** requires an access to configuration of adapter, aggregator and reporter.

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe it should start with adding service `POR`?
so
```
orakl-cli service insert --name POR
```

### Reporter

The **Orakl Network API** holds information about all reporters. The command below adds a single Proof of Reserve reporter to the Orakl Network state to report to `oracleAddress`. The chain parameter specifies a chain on which we expect to operate. Reporter is defined by an `address` and a `privateKey` parameters.

```sh
orakl-cli reporter insert \
  --service POR \
  --chain ${chain} \
  --address  ${address} \
  --privateKey ${privateKey} \
  --oracleAddress ${oracleAddress}
```

### Adapter & Aggregator

```sh
orakl-cli adapter insert \
    --file-path ${adapterJsonFile}

orakl-cli aggregator insert \
    --chain ${chain} \
    --file-path ${aggregatorJsonFile}
```

## Configuration

> Before we launch the **Orakl Network POR**, we must specify [several environment variables](https://github.com/Bisonai/orakl/blob/master/core/.env.example). The environment variables are automatically loaded from a `.env` file.

Reviewer: Let's use full name.

```suggestion
Before we launch the **Orakl Network Proof Of Reserve**, we must specify [several environment variables](https://github.com/Bisonai/orakl/blob/master/core/.env.example). The environment variables are automatically loaded from a `.env` file.
```

* `POR_AGGREGATOR_HASH`
* `NODE_ENV=production`
* `CHAIN`
* `PROVIDER_URL`
* `ORAKL_NETWORK_API_URL`
* `LOG_LEVEL`
* `HEALTH_CHECK_PORT`
* `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`

> `POR_AGGREGATOR_HASH` first environment variable is to define Aggregator Hash value of the unique aggregator which will used for Proof of Reserve service.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`POR_AGGREGATOR_HASH` first environment variable is to define aggregator hash value of the unique aggregator which will used for Proof of Reserve service.  
```
